Javascript is a interpreted language.
Yani compiled dillerden farklı olarak satır satır çalıştırılır. 

Each browser has its own JavaScript engine, which either interprets the code, or uses some sort of lazy compilation.

- V8: Chrome and Node.js
- SpiderMonkey: Firefox
- JavaScriptCore: Safari
- Chakra: Microsoft Edge/IE

They each implement the ECMAScript standard, but may differ for anything not defined by the standard.


JS code go thouhgt 2 phase:
- phase 1: Before executing the code, the engine reads the entire file and will throw a syntax error if one is found. for example is you miss putting a come to between list items, engine will detect it at this phase ans will warn you. Also, in this phase:
    - Any function definitions will be saved in memory.
    - Variable initializations will not be run, but lexically-scoped variable names will be declared.
- phase 2: Execution of the code line by line.



### decleration-defition-initilization

decleration is just creating a variable without a value: 
```js
const myvar //Error
let myvar
var myvar1
```

definition is assigining value to a declared variable:
```js
myvar = 42
myvar1 = "ismail"
```

initializing is doing both combined :
```js
const myvar = 42
let myvar1 = "ismail"
```

### method vs function difference

method is a key that has value of function
for example greet is a method here :

```js
const person = {
    name : "ismail"
    greet : function() {console.log("Hello,", this.name)}
} 
```

bu here, it is a function :
```js
function greet(name) {
    console.log("Hello,", name)
}
```


### why there is some stupid-looking rules in js

for example null is an object  or var allows you to declare variables with same name.

This is because in the case of changing this rules,
internet would brake :D




