## Variable Scope

There are 2 types of scopes:
- Lexical scoping (var): from when they’re declared until when their function ends.
- Block scoping (const, let): until the next } is reached.


as you see the difference btw var and const-let is scope manner. people almost never use var nowadays. 

but what is the differnce btw const and let?

### changing and mutating is different 
const is constant and the value is not allowed to change after initialized. For example you cant do this :

```js
const num = 42
num = 43 //error
num++ //error
```

but what about reference types (objects), since they are the address of pointers it is okay to mutate the value it looks:

```js
const obj = {
    name : "ismail"
    surname : "cakmak"
}

obj.name = "sude" 

//now obj name is "sude"
```

since obj is a pointer and its adress of the value it is pointing still same.

but what about this :

```js
const obj = {name : "ismail"}
obj = {name : "sude"} //error
```
now this usage creates a new value in the heap so this new value's address is new as well and this new value now assigned to obj. therefore it will raise an error since obj is a const variable.

but same thing is can be done with let:
```js
let obj = {name : "ismail"}
obj = {name : "sude"} //okay
```

and this is okay too as you can guess.
```js
let counter = 50
counter++
```

### how var is different than let-const

However another difference it const-let protects you from creating 2 variable with the same name :

```js
let name = "ismail"
name = "sude" //update is okay
let name = "elif" //ERROR
```

but "var" doenst have that protection :
```js
var name = "ismail"
name = "elif" //update is okay
var name = "sude" //okay too (overshadowing)
```
what the heckk! 

Also, "var" variables are hoisted. You will learn what is hoisting in the next chapter.


### hoisting

hoisiting is taking sth and putting on the top. 
and js hoist function definitions and "var" variables declerations.

does this work?

```js
greet()

// some stuff happening

function greet() {
    console.log("hello")
}
```
yes, it works. it is because js hoist function to the top of the file. 


but what if we create a function like that :

```js
f()

// some stuffs happening

var f =  function() {
    console.log("hello")
}
```

Error is  :
``` 
VM255:2 Uncaught TypeError: f2 is not a function
```

it is because js hoist only the decleration of the "var" variables. so engine only see a variable declared with the name of "f" but it has no more info at the line executing f().

engine see it like this
```js
var f 
f()
```

what about const and let variables?
They are not hoisted, so if you try using this variables before definition. you will face error.

```js
f()  //ERROR

const f = function() {
    Console.log("Hi")
}
```
but this time error is different :
```
Uncaught ReferenceError: f3 is not defined
```
is it definition error, because engine doesnt see even any decleration.

 







