This keywords has some characteristics.

## in an method in an object, it refers to the object itself

let say we have this object:
```js
const person = {
    name: "Ismail",
    greet: function () {
        console.log("Hello", this.name)
    }
}
```

when we invoke person.greet:
```js
person.greet()
```
since the this in the function is in the person object, it refers to this particular person objects and hence the name is defined, it prints
```
Hello, Ismail
```

lets say we create a new object like this:
```js
const friend = {
    name: "David",
}
```
this is completely different object, and doesnt even have greet method.

and when we do this :
```js
friend.greet = person.greet
```
now friend object also has this method, and now what it will print if we do:
```js
friend.greet()
```
it will print 
```
Hello, David
```
since this keyword in friend.greet method bounded to friend object now.


But what if we assign person.greet to a new function and invoke it:
```js
const greet = person.greet
greet()
```

now, since this function is located in global area, the this in the greet function refers to global object. and since there is no variable defined in the global area named "name", it gives an undefined error :

```js
Hello, undefined
```

so how we can make this greet() to print a real name.
the first thing is creating a variable named as "name" in the global object.

We can directly do this :
```js
this.name = "Ahmet"
```
or creating a variable with "var" keyword is also do the same thing, those both adding a new key to the global object (you can check)
```js
var name = "Ahmet"
```

now when you do `greet()` you will see that it prints
```
Hello, Ahmet
```

### in a function in a class, it behaves same as object method way


### global scope

In the global context (outside of any function or object), this refers to the global object.
- In browsers, the global object is window.
- In Node.js, it is global.

```js
console.log(this); // In browser, it will log the `window` object
```

### inside a function

When used inside a regular function (non-arrow function), this refers to the global object (window in browsers) in non-strict mode. Example:

```js
function show() {
    console.log(this); // Refers to the global object (window)
}
show();
```

### Inside a Function (Strict Mode)

In strict mode ('use strict';), this inside a regular function is undefined. This prevents accidental manipulation of the global object.

```js
'use strict';
function show() {
    console.log(this); // Undefined in strict mode
}
show();

```



### Arrow Functions

Arrow functions don't have their own this context. Instead, they inherit this from the surrounding lexical context (the scope in which they are defined).

Here, arrowGreet inherits this from the greet function, which refers to the person object : 

```js
const person = {
    name: "Alice",
    greet: function() {
        const arrowGreet = () => {
            console.log(this.name); // Inherits `this` from the `greet` method
        };
        arrowGreet();
    }
};
person.greet(); // Outputs "Alice"

```


In this case, since the arrow function is defined in the global scope, it inherits this from the global environment. But, since arrow functions don’t have their own this, it doesn't reset to undefined or change :

```js
const arrowFunc = () => {
    console.log(this); // Refers to the global object (window in browsers)
};

arrowFunc(); // In a browser, this will log the window object
```


In this example, despite strict mode, this still refers to the global object. Arrow functions effectively bypass strict mode's behavior of making this undefined in functions :
```js
'use strict';
const arrowFunc = () => {
    console.log(this); // Still refers to the global object (window in browsers)
};
arrowFunc();
```



## How to bind this explicitly
We sometimes need to bind this explicityly, for example when we pass an and callback function, since the function is copied, this will be lost, as an example in such cases we need to bind this explicitly.

Here an example of a case where this needs to be binded :
```js
import React from 'react';
import { render } from 'react-dom';
import Hello from './Hello';

const styles = {
  fontFamily: 'sans-serif',
  textAlign: 'center',
};

class App extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.state = {
      count: 0,
    }
  }

  increaseCount() {
    this.setState(prevState => ({count: prevState.count + 1}))
    console.log(this.state.count)
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div style={styles}>
        <div>
          <button onClick={this.increaseCount}>Increase</button>
        </div>
        <h2>{this.state.count}</h2>
      </div>
    )
  }
}

render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'))

```

In line 189, we pass increaseCount function of the class to button onClick, but since increaseCount will be passed as a callback to button onClick, this will be lost. therefore when you try to run this code you will get an error that points to line 181 :
```
Cannot read property "setState" of undefined.
```
since this is not binded to our class anymore, we get this error.

we can use arroy function, or bind() method to resolve this issue and bind this when we pass increaseCount as a callback.

---
Here a simple example of binding this : 
```js
function greet() {
    console.log(this.name);
}

const person = { name: "Alice" };
greet.call(person); // Outputs "Alice" (sets `this` to `person`)
```

