Now, you may have heard of TDD before. And maybe you thought “Ah yes, testing. That’s definitely something I should do.” And then you didn’t do it. Anyone?

I hear that all the time. I think there are two reasons why:

The first reason is that testing seems like an optional extra—gold plating; a nice-to-have. You don’t need the tests to have working code. And what’s the first thing to get dropped when a project starts getting behind? Those ‘superfluous’ tests, right? Why waste time on something that isn’t absolutely essential to getting the project completed?

The second reason we don’t practice TDD more often (I think) is because of the word ‘test’. Testing sounds tedious; boring; time-consuming. You’re under the pump and you’ve got to get this project out the door. You don’t have time to write tests on top of everything else that has to get done. It seems like a nice-to-have. It’s like doing your taxes—you might understand that it’s important, but it’s definitely not sexy or fun.

I felt the same way about TDD. But so many smart people seemed to be saying it was a good idea that I reluctantly gave it a go. And eventually I discovered a secret :

`Test Driven Development is not about testing. It is a way of thinking and coding that just-so-happens to involve tests.`


TDD is a technique that gives you confidence in your code. It’s a life-hack. It’s not really about the tests. Those are just a useful side-effect. The real benefit of TDD is the way it teaches you to think about code, and the confidence it gives you to know that your code definitely works.


Yeah, TDD seems slower at first. And when you start out it does take more time as you get used to it—just like any new skill. But as you go on it starts saving you more and more time. This is because you spend less time figuring out why things are broken and more time getting things done.

Also, 

`Test Driven Development is not the same thing as unit tests. Unit tests are a type of test. TDD is a coding technique.`





> Source : https://jrsinclair.com/articles/2016/one-weird-trick-that-will-change-the-way-you-code-forever-javascript-tdd/